cucumber-messages/README.md, before:

# Cucumber Messages

Cucumber consists of several components written in different programming languages:
- Go
- Ruby
- Java
- JavaScript
- C#
- And more...

These components need to exchange data between them. This is done using *Cucumber Messages*.

Cucumber Messages is a message protocol based on [Protocol Buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). It allows one process to construct message objects and send them to another process. 
Protobuf takes care of serialising those messages to a binary format, and deserialise them on the other
end.

The messages are defined in [messages.proto](./messages.proto).

Each subdirectory defines language-specific implementations of these messages,
generated with `protoc` - the Protobuf compiler.

## Overview

The protocol aims to decouple various components of the Cucumber platform so that:

* Each component only needs to know about a subset of messages
* Gherkin is decoupled from the Cucumber execution component
  * This is part of a strategy to support other formats such as Markdown and Excel
  
![messages.png](messages.png)

## Detailed message documentation

See the generated [messages.md](messages.md) file.

Commit message:

Add time conversion and rename stream classes

cucumber-messages/README.md, after:

# Cucumber Messages

Cucumber consists of several components written in different programming languages:
- Go
- Ruby
- Java
- JavaScript
- C#
- And more...

These components need to exchange data between them. This is done using *Cucumber Messages*.

Cucumber Messages is a message protocol based on [Protocol Buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). It allows one process to construct message objects and send them to another process. 
Protobuf takes care of serialising those messages to a binary format, and deserialise them on the other
end.

The messages are defined in [messages.proto](./messages.proto).

Each subdirectory defines language-specific implementations of these messages,
generated with `protoc` - the Protobuf compiler.

## Overview

The protocol aims to decouple various components of the Cucumber platform so that:

* Each component only needs to know about a subset of messages
* Gherkin is decoupled from the Cucumber execution component
  * This is part of a strategy to support other formats such as Markdown and Excel
  
![messages.png](messages.png)

## Utitlities

This library also contains utilities for:

* Reading/Writing message objects as either [varint](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/encoding#varints)-delimited protobuf binary or [NDJSON](http://ndjson.org/).
* Converting timestamps (clock time) and durations (monotonic time) to and from the
  language-specific representation to our own protobuf `Timestamp` and `Duration` messages.

## Detailed message documentation

See the generated [messages.md](messages.md) file.
